# developer experience in the app

There's code in the app that only exists to speed up the development and testing process. For example:
- anvil persistence
- anvil instance
- arbiter instance
- price process updates via app subscriptions
- switching between anvil/sandbox/production networks


This code is good and does a good job at what its supposed to do - speed up developers' ability to test and debug. However, it's integrated into the app
so closely to the core user facing code that its hard to discern what is "dev only" and what is "user facing".

We should compartmentalize the dev-x specific code into its own separate component. This has two consequences:
- developer code is explicit, making it easier to maintain and find for developers.
- non-developer code is not cluttering the production user-facing code, making it easier to maintain the user facing code.
- developer code is easier to manage.

Some methods to carry this out would be to:
- make an explicit anvil management interface.
    - Manage the instance & arguments
    - Load/save the instance
    - 1-click deploy protocols/modules/contracts & maybe run forge scripts?
    - Make the anvil instance available to connect to in the app
- make an explicit arbiter management interface.
    - Manage the instance & arguments
    - Load/save the instance
    - 1-click deploy protocols/modules/contracts & maybe run forge scripts?

Since these two are very closely related, it might make sense to make a single "anvil/arbiter" management interface.
This would also make it so that all the developer related code for these things is moved into its own separate compartment, clearing up the main app code.

Then, the main app code can be focused on what it needs to make it work, and the developer code can be focused on what it needs to make app maintenance and building faster.

In the production setting, the app is not doing protocol deployments or setup, it's just binding itself to the addresses of the already deployed systems. This is how the app code exist, and so moving the current non-production things to a dedicated developer screen gets us there.

Right now the loader does a lot of lifting for protocol deployments and setup - I think the loader will continue to do that but it can be separated better to make the developer stuff completely optional.

# protocol traits

I kind of want a trait for protocols to implement - implementing this trait would make the protocol effectively integrated into the app, it just needs the actual interface built. 

It should collapse everything that protocols have in common, but not be a general abstraction. All the unique custom stuff for each protocol should exist, but it exists outside the trait impl. The trait
would really just standardize the api in a way to makes some parts of the interface consistent.

For example, all protocols that are handling some type of financial feature generally have:
- 1+ smart contracts, which are connected in different ways.
- a way to get existing positions
- key actions that can be taken in the protocol, which emit events.

One of the challenges with protocols is matching addresses to respective abis. This is one thing the trait can maybe handle so its more straightforward to bind the addresses to respective contract interfaces.

One of the problems with separating these things is that connection to networks cannot be fully separated without creating a lot of overhead to manage the extra connection. This is why ExcaliburMiddleware exists, to act as the barrier between networks and their use via clients. If we want an Anvil instance, it should live in the middleware. Maybe there is a way to connect to it instead of manage it, that would be better. But this kind of has to be the case because the struct that holds the instance must live the entire lifetime of the app, so it has
to live in a field that exists in the app. The middleware exists, so its the best place to store the anvil instance. But then it violates our condition to separate devx + userx.

Maybe the anvil instance can be created on a separate thread in the background? But then we can't access it with the app stuff, which we might want to programatically interact with in the developer interface. 

So therefore, it should just live in the excalibur middleware struct.


# middleware

I feel like the middleware directory can be deleted, and we just have the one file of middleware that can live in the root app/src code. We then create a directory for protocol adapters, and this is where protocol implementations can live.

Then we need to separate the anvil/arbiter/clients enough to the point where, for example, the anvil connection code can live else where, but the final step is to call something on the middleware to actually do that connection. Then the anvil code doesnt need to live in the excalibur middleware.

One thing is that the middleware has a "contracts" hashmap, which is leveraged by the protocol trait implementations to get the contract addresses. This is mapped by just string names for the contracts, which can lead to lots of errors. Should the registry of addresses live in the middleware?

Actually - right now the protocol trait has a method to return its own object that has the addresses it needs. However, it does not leverage this object, and uses the middleware's contracts hashmap. So we probably can remove that from the middleware. Then ideally the middleware can be a lot simpler and just manage the client connection and developer instances. [edit: nevermind, its using the addresses from the hashmap to build the protocol object with the bound contracts.]

Right now the protocol trait is implemented for ExcaliburMiddleware, could this be extended for additional protocol adapters? Thats thinking maybe too ahead, we just need to get one adapter working so implementing a trait for the middleware is probably fine.

Contracts hashmap does persist so it might be a good place to store all the addresses.

I would say the addresses can be constants defined at compile time, but if we are testing contracts and deploying them in the devx then we need to be able to change them. So then we need the protocol trait to get them or implement in another object...

Alright so we probably want some sort of cache state that loads the necessary addresses. So i am definitely convinced a contracts hashmap is the way.

So the identifiers for the protocols just need to be unique/verified. We can then use these identifiers to load the addresses from the contracts hashmap.

We can make multiple adapters and implement them for the middleware. Any adapters that need sharing can be created with a supertrait that implements them both which is implemented over the middleware.